# 💭 Reflection: Game Glitch Investigator

Answer each question in 3 to 5 sentences. Be specific and honest about what actually happened while you worked. This is about your process, not trying to sound perfect.

## 1. What was broken when you started?

While running the game for the first time and playing through it through several iterations, several bugs were noted:

(1) The hints were the opposite of the direction that the player should be 

(2) After pressing "New Game" after a win or game over the game doesn't reset and doesn't respond to any new inputs

(3) When entering a number out of range, instead of saying the input is invalid or out of range, it alternates between saying go Lower or go Higher

(4) When toggling between difficulties, the Normal difficulty has more attempts available than the Easy difficulty (7 to 5)

| Input Used  | Expected Behavior | Actual Behavior | Console Error / Output |
| :---------------- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| guess of 1 on Normal| Correct or Go Higher| Go Lower | None |
| guess of 100 on Normal| Correct or Go Lower| Go Higher | None |
| guess of 400 on Normal| Out of Range / Invalid | Go Higher / Go Lower | None | 
| Pressing New Game After Win or Game Over | Reset | Game Over Message or You Won Message Persists| None |
| Changing from Easy to Normal | Decreased in Attempts from 5  | Attempts increased to 7 | None |

---

## 2. How did you use AI as a teammate?

In this case I used both the Claude plugin for VSCode and Github code; one  correct AI suggestion is that the streamlit session state status wasn't updated at all upon clicking the New Game button after asking Claude for assistance in where the bug could be located. 

After iterating and implementing the status session update back to playing upon the New Game Button press, manually testing showed it allowed for new sessions to be conducted (back to "playing" status)

One example of a misleading suggestion came when the tests for this bug was to be added; it instead created a unit test with mock data instead of actively targeting the component. This wasn't correct since instead of testing the actual session state, it created a fake object with its own properties and altering the data there, which would not have told us if there
were any issues with streamlit implementation. Instead it had to be redirected to use streamlit testing to verify that it worked. 

---

## 3. Debugging and testing your fixes

Determining whether a bug was truly fixed was a combination of both deterministic tests and manual verification. 
After each fix a testcase was written into pytest in order to verify the behavior remained stable across the current and 
future iterations, and running a new game session(s) helped assert that the change is actually applied. 

For an example, tests were generated by AI for the guess high and low outcome, which during implementation showed me that the check_guess function and other util functions are the key verifiers of the logic to determine the behavior of the application. 

AI helped scaffold the asserts for the three bugs, and helped me understand how the pytest suite worked in order to check the validity of the implemented functions with the intended behavior against the observed behavior after running them.

---

## 4. What did you learn about Streamlit and state?

Streamlit "reruns" are bascially like page refreshes in the browser when triggered.
However this also erases any progress that has occurred if there isn't a persistent note to keep track of changes. 
Thats where the session state comes into play, where you store things like a post-it note to remind you of changes to remember. 

---

## 5. Looking ahead: your developer habits

Having seperate windows for prompting where you isolate a single issue in order to limit the scope helps
to limit the amount of context needed for tasks to be accomplished and also keep the conversation focused. 
This in turn helped me to ensure that the changes are more small and gradual which helps to maintain my understanding of the codebase.

One thing I would approach differently is having templates or examples that it could follow for implementing future features. While the project is small, having a style guide or reference guide for bigger projects will definitely help reduce the context size and make prompts more token efficient.

As I work through the project, it taught me to realize that the llms are really good at pattern replication which in turn
helps to follow other pieces of code existing in the codebase, but that requires you to ensure that the scope and the context are defined well to keep the solution focused.
I think of it as a very powerful tool for prototyping and mocking up proof of concepts which can be good for proving 
whether an idea is feasible or not, but it comes with the understanding that you have to verify the results whether it is through robust test cases and/or workflows. 
